------ Review #2 --------------------------------------------------

 * Is the online resource clearly useful as a high quality and
   interesting teaching resource for faculty and/or students of economics
   and is there enough there for a publication in JEE?

   I see this submission as having two aspects -- a demonstration of this
   novel technology and the actual content. The technology is new to
   economics, as best I know, and a significant advance over the
   alternative. Briefly, when the user clicks on a page, they see a graph
   or calculation being developed as a voice narrates its development.
   It is as if one is just watching a whiteboard and listening to the
   instructor. This is superior to video of someone at a board as the
   person is extraneous, sometimes in the way, and often distracting.
   Also, here the text or graph is at their maximum size as all one sees
   is a page of content. It very much reminds me of Khan Academy videos,
   which use a different and substantially more expensive technology for
   the same result. I believe that "smart boards," which seem
   increasingly common in K-12, offer the same functionality, but they
   are even more expensive and can't be readily used in an instructor's
   office.

   The content of this site is standard for macro principles and there
   are typical descriptions of those topics. Thus, I downplay the actual
   content as I suspect that a fair number of instructors will use this
   technology on their own. That said, I saw no problems with the
   pencasts that I reviewed.

   If this submission was to a different section of the JEE I would
   suggest that it include evidence that this improves learning. However,
   for this section, I do not see that need.

   Since a major focus of this is the technology, some description of its
   costs, special requirements, and pitfalls seems appropriate.

 * Does the technology "work?"

   Yes, and it works very well. Besides the broad aspect of listening to
   and seeing a graph or calculation appear before their eyes, there are
   subtle aspects of the user interface that add to the user experience.
   For example, one can click on any portion of the page to have the talk
   start or restart at that point.

 * Is the technology new or its application unusual (not essential,
   but a plus)?

   As best I know, the technology is new to economics.

 * Does the Note accurately describe the online resources? We don't
   always review in depth the entire content for accuracy of detail (some
   are virtual books), but obviously any problems with content you find
   should also be included.

   Yes, the note provides a good description. One very minor issue is
   that it refers to "nine topics" while there are three to eight
   pencasts for each topic. This distinction might be mentioned.

 * The JEE does not want to advertise books or "for pay" online sites; is
   there enough free online content to make this a useful resource for
   teaching?

   The site is entirely free. It does describe a fee-based technology,
   but I do not see that as a hindrance.

 * Please conclude by recommending one of reject, accept (with minor
   revisions if needed), or accept but with major revisions.

   I recommend acceptance, but I do suggest that the author describe the
   pitfalls, costs, and caveats of this technology. I would think it
   would work best on the website.

-------------------------------------------------------------------
