------ Review #1 --------------------------------------------------

Overall, I recommend that JEE accept the submission, and although I do
not think that revisions are necessary, I think a few minor revisions would
add value to the submission.

The submission is a website with forty Pencasts on various topics from
a typical Introductory Macroeconomics course.  Each Pencast shows lecture
notes being written with simultaneous narration.  The lectures cover a
broad range of Introductory topics.  In most cases they show how to derive
and apply a graphical model.  Some show how to derive and apply an
equation.

The particular technology allows viewers three viewing options:  they
can view all of the notes immediately; view only the portion of the notes
that the narrator has discussed up to that point in the lecture; or view
the upcoming portions in grey and the covered portions in green.  The
viewer can also skip to various points in the lecture by clicking on the
relevant section of the notes.  These features make it easy to follow along
and easy to repeat difficult sections.  Students should find this useful.

The Pencasts range in length from one minute forty-six seconds to nine
minutes seven seconds.  Most are four to six minutes long.

The submission is satisfactory regarding several issues of potential
concern:
   • The Pencasts are of sufficiently high quality.  This should be an
     interesting and useful resource for students that either struggling
     with a particular topic or have missed that particular lecture.  Many
     instructors of an Introductory Macroeconomics course should find it
     worthwhile to tell their students of this resource.  With forty
     different Pencasts and almost as many topics, there is sufficient
     material for JEE publication.
   • The technology worked as intended.
   • It seems that this particular technology is new to teaching economics.
      While lectures on economics are available online, I think that this
     technology is different enough to provide unique features that some
     students will find appealing.
   • Overall, the author’s description is accurate.  However, there are a
     couple of minor issues that I think should be addressed.  1) I do not
     think that the topics covered are particularly difficult for students,
     even though the author describes them as so.  2) The author cites
     Pencasts as being useful for “teaching modeling strategy,” but the
     posted Pencasts do not seem to demonstrate this.  Although the author
     is using economic models to solve hypothetical problems, the narration
     seems limited to solving problems given the model, rather than
     choosing or developing an economic model—i.e. modeling.  3) The
     author’s description omits a description of the style of these
     particular Pencasts.  In this case, I think the style is a very
     friendly one, geared towards teaching the basic mechanics of the
     models.  This would be in contrast to other possible styles, such as a
     more formal style or one with an emphasis on intuition instead of
     mechanics.
   • Use of the Pencasts is free.

I think that the Pencasts provide value to students and teachers.
Nevertheless, I think that some changes could increase the value.

I think the friendly tone of the Pencast is appealing, but I think
that polishing some of the presentations would still add value without
taking away the friendly tone.  In a couple of the presentations, the
narrator seems to stumble a bit.  In a couple of the presentations, the
author makes mistakes and then corrects them.  I would anticipate that with
so many potential viewers, many would appreciate rerecorded, smoother
presentations in those instances.

The narrator seems to use the plural “axes” when referring to the
singular “axis.”

There are a couple of economic mistakes.  In “Calculating Opportunity
Costs Using Production Possibility Frontiers,” the author says he is
calculating the marginal opportunity cost when he is calculating the
average opportunity cost.  In “Shifts in Demand,” the author says that an
extension of the subsidy causes a shift in demand, when in fact an
extension could leave demand the same while an end to the subsidy would
cause a shift.  In “Measuring Inflation Using the Consumer Price Index,”
the author writes the inverse of the correct formula to calculate the CPI.
For a 2005 base year, it should be: CPI in 2010 is the price level in 2010
divided by the price level in 2005.  Ultimately, the calculation is
correct, but the initial formula is wrong.  In “Introduction to AS and AD,”
the written notes are misleading by writing that “employment stay same.”
The narration is correct that (relatively speaking) employment costs stay
the same, but employment staying the same would wrongly imply that there is
no cyclical unemployment due to sticky wages.  In “Effects of Production
Costs on AS/AD,” I disagree with the analysis.  I do not think that the
economy will automatically adjust to full employment following a negative
supply shock, and I have not seen this type of adjustment in an
Introductory textbook.  This shock should be akin to the production
function shifting down in real terms.  Instead, I think that the negative
supply shock should be viewed as either temporary or permanent.  If
temporary, the (SR)AS and output will return to potential.  If permanent,
then the LRAS will shift in.  In “Demand for Money,” I think it is
preferable to say that real money demand is adjusted for the price level,
not adjusted for inflation, although this is somewhat of a semantic issue.
In “Money Supply and Money Market Equilibrium,” the money supply is
vertical because the quantity of money supplied does not automatically vary
with the interest rate, not because the Fed can choose any (target)
interest rate.  In fact, (typically) the Fed will have to change the money
supply in order to achieve a new target interest rate.

Overall, it is nice to see that someone is providing these learning
aids to students and faculty.  I hope that it is just the beginning and
that soon faculty and graduate students will be competing to provide better
and better Pencasts to help students learn the material.


